---
layout: post
title: Get Set Go
comments: True
redirect_from: "/2015/03/29/get-set-go/"
permalink: get-set-go
---

Hello all! I haven't been blogging about my proceedings from long time since I am actively working on project and writing tutorials and explaining my work is killing my multi-taskability. But, I took a step back and thought of writing the blog about my work in GEAR.

During the first one month, we have been very slow in turning up the gear, there has been much friction, we were unable to find the factors which slowed us down and also to power it up by bringing the team together to work on it. We failed a lot, but we failed fast enough to find the key to success by working a lot, we started applying rigorous software engineering process models. At times, the work hand became huge and the team was unable to cope up with the load. Though the efforts we put up were massive, the throughput seemed to be low and dissatisfactory.

Hence, I decided to breakdown our work by building the Work Breakdown Structure. Soon the components were broken down, and we found tasks with assigned level of difficulties. We called these tasks as gears and color coded them to identify the level of difficulty and each of the team member has taken up atleast one of different colored gears. The gear started to turn and we started working on the requirements.

Our working methodology involved the famous agile software process model. We gathered highest priority requirements, team shall make 7 day sprints, put on demo, find drawbacks and get feedback, incorporate changes along with next priority requirements and start drilling with same flow of sprint-demo-sprint activities. After a month of such sprints, we are now at a stage to be ready to test our system on NIT Warangal audience and if it seems successful we shall push it further to Warangal muncipality.

More on technical stuff in upcoming posts, till then stay tuned!